# Introduction

## Motivation
Firstly, the main problem when two parties want to exchange some goods is the problem of trust. For dealing an exchange that works, we need a certain level of trust must be apply. Particularly, when the transaction depends by no one. To illustrate this, we cannot simply assure that a party `A` will get a good after paying some money to a party `B` and vice versa. A trusted third party or escrow may resolve this problem to arbitrate a transaction without no one try to swindle the other. But in compensation for this, an extra cost may be added to the transaction and there is still no guarantee that the escrow is a trusted source. Secondly, the most of crypto-based exchanges are still fully centralized even though the main goal of cryptocurrencies is to create a decentralized system of finance. When two parties would like to exchange two different coins, they must pass by a crypto-fund commerce but these platforms remain in generally exclusively of the main centralized exchanges. Anyone who uses these exchanges may potentially risks a various of additional problems like inherent risk of being hacked, or having a breach of user confidentiality, some delays and many other problems. To figure these problems out, the necessity of an implementation of cross-chain payments or atomic swap has been made for assuring a trustless and decentralized system that exists, authorizing the blockchain application to interact with another blockchain.

## Purpose of the thesis

Our objective is to understand the conception of the cross-chain swap, to know how it works and to implement an example of atomic swap with two actors. The cryptocurrencies chosen for this project are Bitcoin and Ethereum both most common and different blockchains. For making a success of the project, we need to mastering how  both cryptographic currencies work if we want programming and develop a software that implements them. The main goal of this thesis is not to have a product made for the production but instead create more an educational work from scratch allowing the understanding of all the important concepts from the blockchain world.

## Challenge

Programming on a blockchain for developing programs is not an easy task. Programming on two different blockchains at the same time is worse especially when we have no knowledge about it. Every blockchain has its lot of characteristic to take into account even they have also several similarities, which they deviates from the standard way of thinking in software development. The main goal here is to explain the atomic swap method that must be generic and therefore can be easily understandable and used by a large number of people. The best approach to handle this challenge is gather all knowledge we can get and just start to code. Practices makes perfect.


